1.Users:
-Users are accounts ,used to login into a system. 
-Each user identified with unique identification number.
Basic commands:
    whoami or id : To display the username of the current use.
    adduser: add a user to the system
    usermod: modify a user account.
    userdel: delete a user account and related files.



2.Group is a collection of specific users
    1.Primary Group-
       - it is the default group that user belongs to
       - this is generally stored in /etc/passwd file
  basic commands:
    addgroup: add a group to the system.

    delgroup: remove a group from the system.



hardlink:

Each hard linked file is assigned the same Inode value as the original, therefore they reference the same physical file location. Hard links more flexible and remain linked even if the original or linked files are moved throughout the file system, although hard links are unable to cross different file systems.
ls -l command shows all the links with the link column shows number of links.
Links have actual file contents
Removing any link, just reduces the link count, but doesn’t affect other links.
Even if we change the filename of the original file then also the hard links properly work.

softlink

2. Soft Links 
 

A soft link is similar to the file shortcut feature which is used in Windows Operating systems. Each soft linked file contains a separate Inode value that points to the original file. As similar to hard links, any changes to the data in either file is reflected in the other. Soft links can be linked across different file systems, although if the original file is deleted or moved, the soft linked file will not work correctly (called hanging link).
ls -l command shows all links with first column value l? and the link points to original file.
Soft Link contains the path for original file and not the contents.
Removing soft link doesn’t affect anything but removing original file, the link becomes “dangling” link which points to nonexistent file.
A soft link can link to a directory.
